### Human Resource Management
It focuses on managing people within an organisation and dealing with administrative tasks,policy and procedures.

### Human Resource Development
It focuses on enhancing employees' skills, knowledge and capabilities to foster growth and organizational success through learning and development initiatives.

HRM is associated with management of human resources while HRD is related to developing them.

#### 4 Benefits of HRM and HRD Practices
- Holistic  Employee Development : Integrating HRM and HRD provides a comprehensive approach to immediate support and long term skill enhancement.
- Strategic Alignment : HR practices align directly with the organisational goals, enhancing the company's strategic objectives.
- Improved Efficiency : Well-rounded development boosts employee skills and engagement, leading to increase efficiency.
- Enhanced Talent Retention : Investing in employee development fosters loyalty and reduces turnover rates.

**Functions of Human Resource Management** can be broadly divided into managerial and operational functions - 
#### Managerial Functions
- Planning : Forming strategies and plans in advance to meet organizational goals including HR req, selection, and training.
- Organizing : Structuring tasks, defining relationships and integrating activities towars common goals within the organization.
- Directing : Activating employees and maximizing their contributions through effective direction, motivation, and tapping into their potential.
- Controlling : Monitoring and comparing actual employee performance with plans, implementing control measures when deviation occur.
#### Operative Functions
- Job Analysis : Studying specific job roles and responsibilities.
- HR Planning : Ensuring the availability of  qualified personnel to meet organizational needs.
- Recruitment : Searching for prospective employees and encouraging them to apply.
- Selection : It involved assessing applicants' qualification and suitability for the job.
- Placement : Matching selected candidates with suitable job roles.
- Induction & Orientation : Helping new employees adjust to the organization's environment, policies and people.
### Definitions
- Job : Group of tasks that must be performed for an organization to achieve its goals.
- Position : Collection of tasks and responsibilities performed by one person.
- Job Analysis : Systematic process of determining skills, duties, and responsibilities of job. It includes the preparation of Job description and Job specification.
- Job Description : Document providing info regarding tasks, duties, and responsibilities of job
- Job Specification : Min qualification to perform a particular job.
### Recruitment Selection and Placement
- Recruitment means searching for prospective employees to suit the job req as represented by job specification.
- Out of prospective applicants right type of person to match the job are selected for the job.
- Under placement the selected person is placed on the job which is most suited to him.
#### Recruitment
It is the process of locating, identifying and attracting capable candidates. It can be for current or future needs.

Steps of recruitment :
1. Identifying Hiring needs
2. Job Analysis and Job Description
3. Sourcing Candidates
4. Screening and Shortlisting
5. Interviews
6. Assessments and Tests
7. Background Checks
8. Decision Making
9. Offer and Negotiation
10. Onboarding

Types of recruitment :
1. Internal Recruitment
2. External Recruitment
3. Campus Recruitment
4. Executive Search
5. Contingent Recruitment
6. Remote Recruitment
7. Diversity and Inclusion Recruitment
8. Referral Recruitment
9. Social Media Recruitment
10. Full Cycle Recruitment
11. Digital Recruitment

Challenges in Recruitment :
1. Talent Shortage
2. High Competition
3. Time and Resource Constraints
4. Evolving Job Market and Skills Gap
5. Diversity and Inclusion
6. Candidate Experience
7. Technology and Automation
8. Compliance and Regulations
9. Retention and Turnover
10. Market and Industry Dynamics

Sources of Recruitment :
- Internal :
	- Promotion
	- Transfer
	- Demotion
	- Retired Employees
	- Notice Boards
	- Job Posting
- External
	- Press Advertisements
	- Educational Institutes
	- Placement Agencies
	- Employment Agencies
	- Unsolicited Obligants
	- Employee Recommendation

#### Selection
Selection refers to picking the candidate that best meets the position requirements.
1. Initial Interview : It is an initial meeting to evaluate a candidate's basic qualifications and fit for a position.
2. Application form : It provides factual information needed for evaluating the candidate's suitability. Once hired, the data can be a part of employee's record.
3. Reference checks : The applicant is asked to mention the names and addresses of his former employees and also 2 or 3 persons known but not related to him. Referees may be called upon to give detailed info  about the candidate's capabilities. If references are checked in a correct manner, a great deal can be learned about a person that an interview cant elicit.
4. Employment tests : Tests are instruments designed to measure selected qualities and abilities in terms of job specifications.
5. Interview
6. Selection decision : Once everyone has been interviewed and you have received a feedback, the hiring manager would narrow down the pool to the best fit for the job. Having a second choice as runner up is better as the first one might decline the job offer or doesn't pass the training.

#### Training
Training refers to acquiring specific knowledge and skills for a particular job. It is usually short term activity concerned on improving an empoyee's current job performance.